Editorial review: Add docs for the HighlightRegistry.highlightsFromPoint() method (#40390)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/highlightregistry/highlightsfrompoint/index.md

### Return value

An array of `HighlightHitResult` objects representing the custom highlights applied at the specified point. Each object contains the following properties:

- `highlight`
  - : A {{domxref("Highlight")}} object representing the applied custom highlight.
- `ranges`
  - : An array of {{domxref("AbstractRange")}} objects representing the ranges to which the custom highlight is applied.

If no custom highlights are applied at the specified point, an empty array is returned. This includes instances where the specified point is outside the viewport, that is, the coordinate values are negative or greater than the viewport dimensions.

## Examples

### Output custom highlights applied at the mouse pointer position

In this example, we provide a paragraph of text that you can apply custom highlights to. You can then double-click a point in the paragraph to output the text that has custom highlights applied at that point.

#### HTML

> The markup includes a {{htmlelement("p")}} element containing the text to apply custom highlights to, and a {{htmlelement("section")}} element that we will output the highlighted text fragments to.

Author: updated

```html live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
<h1>highlightsFromPoint() demo</h1>

> <p class="highlight-text">

Author: class updated

>   Deadlights jack lad schooner scallywag dance the hempen jig carouser broadside

Author: Done

  cable strike colors. Bring a spring upon her cable holystone blow the man down
  spanker Shiver me timbers to go on account lookout wherry doubloon chase.
  Belay yo-ho-ho keelhaul squiffy black spot yardarm spyglass sheet transom
  heave to.
</p>

> <h2>Highlighted text at point</h2>

Author: I don't understand your comment — what's not working about it?

> <h2>Highlighted text at point</h2>

Reviewer: sorry, should have removed my comment. I couldn't get it to work at first, then updated my chrome ;) oops. sorry about that.

> <h2>Highlighted text at point</h2>

Author: Ah, ok. No worries ;-)

<section></section>
```

#### CSS

> We have hidden most of the CSS for brevity; the most relevant CSS defines styling for three custom highlights named `highlight1`, `highlight2`, and `highlight3`.

Author: Good call; done.

```css hidden live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

body {
  background-color: #fff;
  color: #333;
  font:
    1em / 1.4 Helvetica Neue,
    Helvetica,
    Arial,
    sans-serif;
  padding: 1em;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
}

section {
  display: flex;
  gap: 10px;
}

.highlight-text,
article {
  padding: 10px;
  background-color: #eee;
  border: 2px solid #ddd;

>   border-radius: 10px;

Author: Yeah, this looks a bit more subtle. Updated.

}

.instructions {
  font-size: 0.8rem;
}
```

```css live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
:root::highlight(highlight1) {
  background-color: rgb(255 255 0 / 0.5);
}

:root::highlight(highlight2) {
  background-color: rgb(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}

:root::highlight(highlight3) {
  background-color: rgb(0 0 255 / 0.75);
  color: white;
}
```

#### JavaScript

> In our script, we start by grabbing references to the `<p>` element, its contained text node, and our `<section>` element. We then create an array called `customHighlights` that contains our custom highlight names, and a variable called `currentHighlight`, initially set to `0`, which will be used to specify which custom highlight to apply later on.

Author: Text updated, array removed.

```js live-sample___highlights-from-point-example

> const pElem = document.querySelector(".highlight-text");

Author: done

const textNode = pElem.firstChild;
const section = document.querySelector("section");

> const customHighlights = ["highlight1", "highlight2", "highlight3"];

Author: removed

Finally for the `keydown` event handler, we create a new `highlight` object using the {{domxref("Highlight.Highlight", "Highlight()")}} constructor, passing it the `range` we created earlier. We then apply the chosen custom highlight style to `highlight` using the {{domxref("HighlightRegistry.set()")}} method.

```js live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
window.addEventListener("keydown", (event) => {
  if (event.key === "h") {
    const selection = window.getSelection();
    const range = selection.getRangeAt(0);
    if (range.startContainer === textNode && range.endContainer === textNode) {
      const highlightStyle = customHighlights[currentHighlight];
      currentHighlight++;
      if (currentHighlight === 3) {
        currentHighlight = 0;

>       }

Author: OK, I have taken on board several of your suggestions here, and it has made the code and explanation shorter. All good!

I didn't do everything you suggested, as in some cases, slightly longer code is better for understanding what is going on.

For each `highlight`, we grab the first range in the [`ranges`](#ranges) array (there is only ever one range in each highlight, in this case), then get the exact highlighted string using {{domxref("Range.toString()")}} and add it to the `<section>` element's `innerHTML`, inside an `<article>` element.

```js live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
pElem.addEventListener("dblclick", (event) => {
  const mouseX = event.clientX;
  const mouseY = event.clientY;
  const highlights = CSS.highlights.highlightsFromPoint(mouseX, mouseY);

  section.innerHTML = "";
  for (highlight of highlights) {
    const range = highlight.ranges[0];
    const textSelection = range.toString();
    section.innerHTML += `<article>${textSelection}</article>`;
  }
});
```

#### Result

> Try selecting some sections of text, pressing <kbd>h</kbd> after each one to apply a highlight. Then try double-clicking on a highlighted section of text to see that section outputted at the bottom of the UI. If multiple highlights overlap the section, you'll see multiple text fragments outputted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting sections of text, then press <kbd>h</kbd> after each selection to apply a highlight. Once you have highlighted text, try double-clicking on a highlighted section of text, or overlapped highlighted areas, to see the text of the highlighted section(s) outputted at the bottom of the UI. When multiple highlights overlap, clicking in the overlapping area will lead to multiple text fragments being displayed.
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("highlights-from-point-example", "100%", "600")}}

## Specifications

> {{Specifications}}

Author: Weird that it's not showing up on the preview URL. It works locally, and the `spec_url` is definitely in the data; see https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/blob/main/api/HighlightRegistry.json#L243.

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - {{domxref("css_custom_highlight_api", "The CSS Custom Highlight API", "", "nocode")}}

Author: Done

      - : An array of {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} objects. Custom highlights that exist at the specified point inside shadow roots in the array will be included in the return value. By default, highlights inside shadow roots are not returned.

### Return value

An array of `HighlightHitResult` objects representing the custom highlights applied at the specified point. Each object contains the following properties:

- `highlight`
  - : A {{domxref("Highlight")}} object representing the applied custom highlight.
- `ranges`
  - : An array of {{domxref("AbstractRange")}} objects representing the ranges to which the custom highlight is applied.

If no custom highlights are applied at the specified point, an empty array is returned. This includes instances where the specified point is outside the viewport, that is, the coordinate values are negative or greater than the viewport dimensions.

## Examples

### Output custom highlights applied at the mouse pointer position

In this example, we provide a paragraph of text that you can apply custom highlights to. You can then double-click a point in the paragraph to output the text that has custom highlights applied at that point.

#### HTML

> The markup contains a {{htmlelement("p")}} element containing the text to apply custom highlights to, and a {{htmlelement("section")}} element that we will output the highlighted text fragments to.

Reviewer 2: Small suggestion to avoid using "contain" twice in the same sentence:

```suggestion
The markup includes a {{htmlelement("p")}} element containing the text to apply custom highlights to, and a {{htmlelement("section")}} element that we will output the highlighted text fragments to.
```

Author: updated

const textNode = pElem.firstChild;
const section = document.querySelector("section");
const customHighlights = ["highlight1", "highlight2", "highlight3"];
let currentHighlight = 0;
```

Next, we define a keyboard control — <kbd>h</kbd> — that when pressed applies a custom highlight to any text selected inside the paragraph text. This consists of a [`keydown`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/keydown_event) event handler function that only runs its contents if the pressed key was <kbd>h</kbd>. If so, we grab the selected text using {{domxref("Window.getSelection()")}} and convert it to a {{domxref("Range")}} using {{domxref("Selection.getRangeAt()")}}.

Next, we check that the `range` object's [`startContainer`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Range/startContainer) and [`endContainer`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Range/endContainer) are both the paragraph text node, to make sure we don't allow any cross-container highlights. If so, we select the custom highlight we want to apply to the `range` using `customHighlights[currentHighlight]`, then increment `currentHighlight`; if it reaches `3`, we set it back to `0`. This has the effect of cycling through the available highlights in order as they are set.

> Finally for the `keydown` event handler, we create a new highlight object using the {{domxref("Highlight.Highlight", "Highlight()")}} constructor, passing it the `range` we created earlier. We then apply the chosen custom highlight style to the `highlight` using the {{domxref("HighlightRegistry.set()")}} method.

Reviewer 2: `highlight` is mentioned in the second sentence but it's not specified where it came from. Do you think it makes sense to add something like this?

```suggestion
Finally for the `keydown` event handler, we create a new highlight object `highlight` using the {{domxref("Highlight.Highlight", "Highlight()")}} constructor, passing it the `range` we created earlier. We then apply the chosen custom highlight style to `highlight` using the {{domxref("HighlightRegistry.set()")}} method.
```

Author: I've done something similar to fix this; I just put "create a new `highlight` object" rather than "create a new highlight object `highlight`"

```js live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
window.addEventListener("keydown", (event) => {
  if (event.key === "h") {
    const selection = window.getSelection();
    const range = selection.getRangeAt(0);
    if (range.startContainer === textNode && range.endContainer === textNode) {
      const highlightStyle = customHighlights[currentHighlight];
      currentHighlight++;
      if (currentHighlight === 3) {
        currentHighlight = 0;
      }
      const highlight = new Highlight(range);
      CSS.highlights.set(highlightStyle, highlight);
    }
  }
});
```

Next, we define a [`dblclick`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/dblclick_event) event handler function to handle outputting the highlighted text at the mouse cursor position when the event fires. We first grab the current mouse coordinates from the event object ({{domxref("MouseEvent")}}). We then pass those coordinates into a `highlightsFromPoint()` call to return the custom highlights applied at that point. We then clear the contents of the `<section>` element, and loop through each highlight in the `highlights` array.

> For each `highlight`, we grab the first range in the [`ranges`](#ranges) array (there is only ever one range in each highlight, in this case), then get a reference to the node that contains the highlight via the {{domxref("AbstractRange.startContainer")}} property. We then get the exact highlighted string using {{domxref("Range.toString()")}}, and add the highlighted text inside the `<section>` element's `innerHTML`, inside an `<article>` element.

Reviewer 2: I think `highlightedContainer` is not used anymore after modifying the code, right? I think this paragraph could be updated too now, maybe something like below? Feel free to modify it.

```suggestion
For each `highlight`, we grab the first range in the [`ranges`](#ranges) array (there is only ever one range in each highlight, in this case) and get the exact highlighted string using {{domxref("Range.toString()")}}. This text is then added inside the `<section>` element's `innerHTML`, inside an `<article>` element.
```

Author: Done

```js live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
pElem.addEventListener("dblclick", (event) => {
  const mouseX = event.clientX;
  const mouseY = event.clientY;
  const highlights = CSS.highlights.highlightsFromPoint(mouseX, mouseY);

  section.innerHTML = "";
  for (highlight of highlights) {
    const range = highlight.ranges[0];

>     const highlightedContainer = range.startContainer;

Reviewer 2: I think `highlightedContainer` is not used anymore, right?

```suggestion
```

  outputted.
</p>
<h2>Highlighted text at point</h2>
<section></section>
```

#### CSS

In the CSS, we define styling for three custom highlights named `highlight1`, `highlight2`, and `highlight3`. We select each custom highlight by passing its name into the {{cssxref("::highlight()")}} pseudo-element, giving them yellow, red, and blue background colors respectively.

```css hidden live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

body {
  background-color: #fff;
  color: #333;
  font:
    1em / 1.4 Helvetica Neue,
    Helvetica,
    Arial,
    sans-serif;
  padding: 1em;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
}

section {
  display: flex;
  gap: 10px;
}

.highlightable-text,
article {
  padding: 10px;
  background-color: #eee;
  border: 2px solid #ddd;
  border-radius: 5px;
}

.instructions {
  font-size: 0.8rem;
}
```

```css live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
:root::highlight(highlight1) {
  background-color: rgb(255 255 0 / 0.5);
}

:root::highlight(highlight2) {
  background-color: rgb(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}

:root::highlight(highlight3) {
  background-color: rgb(0 0 255 / 0.75);
  color: white;
}
```

#### JavaScript

> We start by grabbing references to the `<p>` element, its contained text node, and our `<section>` element. We then create a variable called `highlightCount`, initially set to `1`, which will be used to specify which custom highlight to apply later on.

Author: Yeah, this is quite a nice suggestion — see my next commit. I have also moved the `section` global definition into the second section, so it is right by the point where it gets used.

Finally for the `keydown` event handler, we create a new `highlight` object using the {{domxref("Highlight.Highlight", "Highlight()")}} constructor, passing it the `selectedRange` we created earlier. We then apply the chosen custom highlight referenced in `highlightName` to `highlight` using the {{domxref("HighlightRegistry.set()")}} method.

```js live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
window.addEventListener("keydown", (event) => {
  if (event.key === "h") {
    const selection = window.getSelection();
    const selectedRange = selection.getRangeAt(0);
    if (
      selectedRange.startContainer === textNode &&
      selectedRange.endContainer === textNode
    ) {
      const highlightName = `highlight${highlightCount++}`;
      if (highlightCount === 4) {
        highlightCount = 1;
      }
      const highlight = new Highlight(selectedRange);
      CSS.highlights.set(highlightName, highlight);
    }
  }
});
```

> Next, we define a [`dblclick`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/dblclick_event) event handler function to handle outputting the highlighted text at the mouse cursor position when the event fires. We pass the current mouse coordinates into a `highlightsFromPoint()` call, clear the contents of the `<section>` element, then loop through each highlight in the `highlights` array.

Author: updated

---
title: "HighlightRegistry: highlightsFromPoint() method"
short-title: highlightsFromPoint()
slug: Web/API/HighlightRegistry/highlightsFromPoint
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.HighlightRegistry.highlightsFromPoint
---

{{APIRef("CSS Custom Highlight API")}}

The **`highlightsFromPoint()`** method of the {{domxref("HighlightRegistry")}} interface returns an array of objects representing the custom highlights applied at a specific point within the viewport.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
highlightsFromPoint(x, y)
highlightsFromPoint(x, y, options)
```

### Parameters

- `x`
  - : The x coordinate of the point within the viewport to return custom highlight information for.
- `y`
  - : The y coordinate of the point within the viewport to return custom highlight information for.
- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object containing options, which can include:
    - `shadowRoots`

>       - : An array of {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} objects. Any shadow roots included in this array will have custom highlights applied inside them that exist at the specified point included in the return value. By default, shadow root custom highlights are not included in the return value.

Author: Yeah, that was horrible. I found it quite tricky to construct this sentence, and your suggestion is certainly better.

I played with it a bit more and came up with this:

> An array of {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} objects. Custom highlights that exist at the specified point inside shadow roots in the array will be included in the return value. By default, highlights inside shadow roots are not returned.

WDYT?

>       - : An array of {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} objects. Any shadow roots included in this array will have custom highlights applied inside them that exist at the specified point included in the return value. By default, shadow root custom highlights are not included in the return value.

Reviewer 2: That looks even better, thanks! Do you think it's clear that highlights in the light DOM are still returned when there are shadow roots provided? I'm thinking maybe some web dev can get confused thinking that option is for returning exclusively those highlights present in the shadow roots that you pass. I'd probably add an "also" in the second sentence there, or maybe even something like "alongside those in the light DOM". Dropping both suggestions below, let me know your thoughts.

> An array of {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} objects. Custom highlights that exist at the specified point inside shadow roots in the array will also be included in the return value. By default, highlights inside shadow roots are not returned.

> An array of {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} objects. Custom highlights that exist at the specified point inside shadow roots in the array will be included in the return value, alongside those present in the light DOM. By default, highlights inside shadow roots are not returned.

>       - : An array of {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} objects. Any shadow roots included in this array will have custom highlights applied inside them that exist at the specified point included in the return value. By default, shadow root custom highlights are not included in the return value.

Author: Yeah, that's a good consideration. I've updated it to your second suggestion.

### Return value

> An array of objects representing the custom highlights applied at the specified point. Each object contains the following properties:

Author: We don't usually do that, TBH. We usually either just say "an object" if it is small and can be fitted on the same page, or we create a separate dictionary page with the same name as the dictionary and link to it. We also don't tend to link to the spec unless absolutely necessary — the idea being that anything web devs need to know should be included on MDN.

But I can see how it is worth mentioning the name for the case where someone is reading about this method on MDN, and still wants to go look it up in the spec to find some extra information (browser engineers, for example!)

I've added the first instance, but not linked it. I'll see what the editorial review thinks, when it comes to that stage.

> An array of objects representing the custom highlights applied at the specified point. Each object contains the following properties:

Reviewer 2: Oh I see, ok that makes sense, thanks for the explanation, mentioning the name sounds good to me 👍

- `highlight`
  - : A {{domxref("Highlight")}} object representing the applied custom highlight.
- `ranges`

>   - : An array of {{domxref("AbstractRange")}} objects representing the ranges the applied custom highlight is applied to.

Author: Good call; I've used your wording.

  spanker Shiver me timbers to go on account lookout wherry doubloon chase.
  Belay yo-ho-ho keelhaul squiffy black spot yardarm spyglass sheet transom
  heave to.
</p>
<h2>Highlighted text at point</h2>
<section></section>
```

#### CSS

We have hidden most of the CSS for brevity; the most relevant CSS defines styling for three custom highlights named `highlight1`, `highlight2`, and `highlight3`.

```css hidden live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

body {
  background-color: #fff;
  color: #333;
  font:
    1em / 1.4 Helvetica Neue,
    Helvetica,
    Arial,
    sans-serif;
  padding: 1em;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
}

section {
  display: flex;
  gap: 10px;
}

.highlight-text,
article {
  padding: 10px;
  background-color: #eee;
  border: 2px solid #ddd;
  border-radius: 10px;
}

.instructions {
  font-size: 0.8rem;
}
```

```css live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
:root::highlight(highlight1) {
  background-color: rgb(255 255 0 / 0.5);
}

:root::highlight(highlight2) {
  background-color: rgb(255 0 0 / 0.5);
}

:root::highlight(highlight3) {
  background-color: rgb(0 0 255 / 0.75);
  color: white;
}
```

#### JavaScript

> In our script, we start by grabbing references to the text node inside our `<p>` element, and our `<section>` element. We then create an array called `highlights` than contains our custom highlight names, and a variable called `curHighlight`, initially set to `0`, which will be used to specify which custom highlight to apply later on.

Author: fixed, ta!

For each highlight, we grab the first range in the [`ranges`](#ranges) array (there is only ever one range in each highlight, in this case), then get a reference to the node that contains the highlight via the {{domxref("AbstractRange.startContainer")}} property. We then get the exact highlighted string by accessing this node's [`textContent`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Node/textContent) and running {{jsxref("String.substring()")}} on it, with the offsets specified as the range's {{domxref("AbstractRange.startOffset")}} and {{domxref("AbstractRange.endOffset")}}.

The final step is to add the highlighted text inside the `<section>` element's `innerHTML`, inside an `<article>` element.

```js live-sample___highlights-from-point-example
document.addEventListener("dblclick", (event) => {
  const mouseX = event.clientX;
  const mouseY = event.clientY;
  const highlights = CSS.highlights.highlightsFromPoint(mouseX, mouseY);

>   if (highlights.length !== 0) {

Reviewer 2: Awesome, great changes. Thanks!

    section.innerHTML = "";
    for (highlight of highlights) {
      const range = highlight.ranges[0];
      const highlightedContainer = range.startContainer;

>       const textSelection = highlightedContainer.textContent.substring(

Author: Ah ha, good catch. I overengineered this one; I'd not even thought of using `toString()` ;-)

It does, of course, work much better, and gets rid of that bug. Updated!
